---
title: "Solana Coin Mining Guide: Profitability, Rewards & Hardware"
description: "Want to mine Solana? It doesn't quite work like that! But you may want to try staking"
lead: "Many people assume that like Bitcoin, Solana can be mined to earn coins. As a Proof of stake coin that's not possible, but there are two other ways you could earn Solana you may be interested in"
date: 2020-11-16T13:59:39+01:00
lastmod: 2020-11-16T13:59:39+01:00
draft: false
images: []
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "Staking"
    name: "Can You Mine Solana?"
weight: 125
toc: true
---

## Can you mine Solana coins?

No, as a proof of stake coin Solana cannot be mined, no matter how powerful your hardware or deep your pockets.

However Solana does offer two key ways you can help out the network in exchange for rewards:

1. **Staking** , where you can stake Solana you already own with a validator to earn rewards. Much as a bank pays interest on your deposits - in exchange for using your savings to fund mortgages and other investments - a Validator in the Solana network will pay your rewards of roughly 8% for allowing your coins to be staked to help confirm transactions on the network.

1. **Validation**, where you run a highly powered server in a datacentre that works to confirm transactions on the Solana network. As a validator you can earn a commission on all the rewards generated by people who 'stake' their coins with you, however the startup costs can be prohibitive for many.

## How profitable can it be? Do you have a calculator?

For staking you can assume a return of about 8% on the coins you stake. You may wish to check our [Solana staking profit calculator](https://solanaguide.github.io/staking/solana-staking-rewards-calculator/) to play with some numbers. You

On the flip side becoming a validator is an altogether different undertaking. You'll need considerable linux devops skills, access to an expensive server (roughly $30k per year), and either an impressive stash of your own SOL (50,000 would be ideal) or the diamond hands to spend 100s of SOL yourself on voting fees while you grow your own validator's share of stake. Check our [article on how much validators make](https://solanaguide.github.io/staking/how-much-do-solana-validators-make/) for more.

## What kind of hardware do you need to be a validator?
The faster the better, but expect to need :

* A 12+ core CPU, ideally with a high clock speed (eg old Xeons may be too slow)
* 128GB RAM minimum
* 1TB NvME SSD or more
* Some also recommend a modern GPU
* 1 gbps unmetered connection

## What's the difficulty like?

To be a Solana staker - easy! You can get started in as little as 3 clicks.

To be a validator .. lets be honest, the learning curve is pretty steep!

## In that case.. can you recommend a Solana staking pool?
In the  world of Solana staking we call them 'Validators', and you can find our guide to the [best solana validators here](https://solanaguide.github.io/staking/find-the-best-solana-validator/)
